Update readme.md (#16)
prestodb/prestorials: running locally/Docker/readme.md

This folder contains example files and steps for setting up Presto using Docker.
<br>

> Soon video walk-through will available as well as a written walk through in blog form.

Reviewer: Suggest deleting this line. Soon is vague, and is a promise that might not be delivered on.

In general, technical documentation should use the present tense, and describe the current state of the software as well as the documentation.

Author: Okay. I deleted the comment.

Reviewer: Thank you!

### Network and container staging
1. Open a Terminal and start by creating a network for the nodes to communicate with each other
```docker network create presto_network```
2. Download a Docker container. For this exercise, use the Presto Sandbox container provided by [Ahana](https://ahana.io/)
```docker pull ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox```

### Setup the Coordinator
```docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -it --net presto_network --name coordinator ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox```
1. Open Docker Desktop and select the **Containers** section on the left
2. You should see the coordinator container running, select the name ```coordinator```

> 3. You should see the Logs, click on the **Terminal** tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You should see the Logs, select the **Terminal** tab
```

docker run -d -p 8082:8082 -it --net presto_network --name worker2 ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox
docker run -d -p 8083:8083 -it --net presto_network --name worker3 ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox
```

For each container you must edit the configuraton properties:
   1. Set it to run as a worker node
   2. Inform it where the coordinator is
   3. Set their http port to what you set in the docker run command  

2. Open Docker Desktop and select the **Containers** section on the left

> 3. You should see the worker containers running, click on ```worker1```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You should see the worker containers running, select ```worker1```
```

> 4. You should see the Logs, click on the **Terminal** tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. You should see the Logs, select the **Terminal** tab
```

http-server.http.port=8082
discovery.uri=http://coordinator:8080
```
1. Press ```Esc``` then type ```:wq``` and press ```Enter```
2. Press the circular arrow restart button towards the top right
3. Select the **Containers** section on the left

> 4. You should see the worker containers running, click on ```worker3```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. You should see the worker containers running, select ```worker3```
```

http-server.http.port=8083
discovery.uri=http://coordinator:8080
```
1. Press ```Esc``` then type ```:wq``` and press ```Enter```
2. Press the circular arrow restart button towards the top right

> 3. Click the **Logs** tab for worker3 and wait for ```======== SERVER STARTED ========``` to appear

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the **Logs** tab for worker3 and wait for ```======== SERVER STARTED ========``` to appear
```

*<p align="center">Screenshot of Presto Web UI showing 3 active workers</p>*

Using the steps above you can add as many worker nodes as you need to scale.
### Setup the cluster
*coming soon*

## Running Presto using Docker CLI 
The setup using Docker CLI is in large parts identical to the setup using Docker Desktop. 

### Network and container staging
1. Open a Terminal and start by creating a network for the nodes to communicate with each other
   ```docker network create presto_network```
2. Next we need to download a container, for this exercise we will use the Presto Sandbox container provided by [Ahana](https://ahana.io/)
   ```docker pull ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox```

### Setup the Coordinator

> ```docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -it --net presto_network --name coordinator ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox```

Author: Thanks for traing and letting me know.  I cannot validate that as I don't have access to an Apple Silicon (M1 or M2) Macbook.  I am running the commands on WSL2 Ubuntu. But as you are observing this I can add a respective comment. Sure.

1. List the running containers issuing the command  ```docker ps```. The ouput should look like this:
```
87dfc138ccf9  ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox "/opt/entrypoint.sh …"   55 minutes ago  Up 23 minutes  0.0.0.0:8080->8080/tcp, :::8080->8080/tcp  coordinator
```
2. We need to edit the config.properties file to configure this container as a coordinator. Login to the container and edit the config.properties file as follows: 
```
docker exec -it coordinator /bin/bash
vi /opt/presto-server/etc/config.properties
```
3. You are now in the vi editor.
   
   Move the cursor to ```true``` in the include-scheduler line.
   
   Type ```cw``` and replace ```true``` with ```false``` ,  ```node-scheduler.include-coordinator=false```
   

>    Exit editing mode hitting the ```Esc``` key. Then type ```:wq``` and hit ```Enter```

Author: Thanks for the pointer to Gitlab's Style Guide. I wasn't aware of is existence. I will do the respective changes.

```

3. Hit the ```i``` key to edit the file 
4. Set coordinator to false ```coordinator=false```
5. Remove the ```node-scheduler.include-coordinator=true``` line
6. Set http.port to 808<n> ```http-server.http.port=808<n>```
7. Remove the ```discovery-server.enabled=true``` line
8. Set the discovery uri to http://coordinator:8080 ```discovery.uri=http://coordinator:8080```
<br>Your file should now look like this
```
coordinator=false
http-server.http.port=808<n>
discovery.uri=http://coordinator:8080
```
9. Exit editing mode hitting the ```Esc``` key then type ```:wq``` and hit ```Enter```
10. Exit the container by typing ```exit``` and hitting ```Enter```
11. Restart the container ```docker restart worker<n>```
12. Check that all three workers are up and running again ```docker ps```
13.  Open a browser window to ```http://localhost:8080/```. You should see 3 active workers ready
![Presto Web UI showing 3 active workers](./screenshots/presto_docker_local_ready.png)
*<p align="center">Screenshot of Presto Web UI showing 3 active workers</p>*

Using the steps above you can add as many worker nodes as you need to scale.
### Setup the cluster

> *coming soon*

Author: Makes sense to me.  So I will delete these lines as well as the respective lines in the  Desktop Setup command description.
